README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/yiisoft" target="_blank">
        <img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/993323" height="100px">
    </a>
    <h1 align="center">Mozzler - Yii 2 Default Project Template</h1>
    <br>
</p>

Mozzler Yii 2 Basic Project Template is a skeleton [Yii 2](http://www.yiiframework.com/) application best for
rapidly creating small projects.

The template contains the basic features including user login/logout and a contact page.
It includes all commonly used configurations that would allow you to focus on adding new
features to your application.

This version is updated with Mozzler specific changes to use that as the main framework set of editions.

The project is expected to run using MongoDB as the database and PHP using Apache or Nginx as the webserver.


Stubs
-------------------------------
When you add a new component and want the IDE autocomplete you'll want to regenerate the stubs so you can use `\Yii::$app->componentName`) 
you can run `./yii stubs 'config/console.php' 'config/web.php'`

Running the stubs command should update the vendor/Yii.php file and add a number of @property entries. CHeck https://packagist.org/packages/bazilio/yii2-stubs-generator for more info



DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
-------------------

      assets/             contains assets definition
      commands/           contains console commands (controllers)
      config/             contains application configurations
      controllers/        contains Web controller classes
      mail/               contains view files for e-mails
      models/             contains model classes
      runtime/            contains files generated during runtime
      tests/              contains various tests for the basic application
      vendor/             contains dependent 3rd-party packages
      views/              contains view files for the Web application
      web/                contains the entry script and Web resources



REQUIREMENTS
------------

The minimum requirement by this project template that your Web server supports PHP 5.4.0.


INSTALLATION
------------

### Install via Composer

If you do not have [Composer](http://getcomposer.org/), you may install it by following the instructions
at [getcomposer.org](http://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-nix).

You can then install this project template using the following command:

~~~
php composer.phar create-project --prefer-dist --stability=dev yiisoft/yii2-app-basic basic
~~~

Now you should be able to access the application through the following URL, assuming `basic` is the directory
directly under the Web root.

~~~
http://localhost/basic/web/
~~~

### Install from an Archive File

Extract the archive file downloaded from [yiiframework.com](http://www.yiiframework.com/download/) to
a directory named `basic` that is directly under the Web root.

Set cookie validation key in `config/web.php` file to some random secret string:

```php
'request' => [
    // !!! insert a secret key in the following (if it is empty) - this is required by cookie validation
    'cookieValidationKey' => '<secret random string goes here>',
],
```

You can then access the application through the following URL:

~~~
http://localhost/basic/web/
~~~


### Install with Docker

Update your vendor packages

    docker-compose run --rm php composer update --prefer-dist
    
Run the installation triggers (creating cookie validation code)

    docker-compose run --rm php composer install    
    
Start the container

    docker-compose up -d
    
You can then access the application through the following URL:

    http://127.0.0.1:8000


**NOTES:** 
- Minimum required Docker engine version `17.04` for development (see [Performance tuning for volume mounts](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/osxfs-caching/))
- The default configuration uses a host-volume in your home directory `.docker-composer` for composer caches


### Install with Vagrant

To work with a headless virtual environment, do the following:

In the `Vagrantfile` alter the app domain name e.g. `drivible.test`, this domain is the browser accessible address

    domains = {
        app: 'drivible.test'
    }

Update machine name in `vagrant/config/vagrant-local.yml` e.g. `drivible` and VM IP address e.g. `192.168.83.138` (so not to conflict with other VMs and connect the MongoDB via Compass)

    # Virtual machine name
    machine_name: drivible

    # Virtual machine IP
    ip: 192.168.83.138

You can also use the config file above to tailor your VM specifications based on your needs.

Edit the `config/web.php` e.g. `drivible` as app name

    'name' => 'Drivible',

Change in `nginx/app.conf` the server_name e.g. `drivible.test` to match the changes in the `Vagrantfile` app domain

    server_name drivible.test;

Then, provision the server

    vagrant up

**NOTES:** 
- Vagrant installation is not fully unattended as it may require host password before proceeding in the middle of the process, kindly be aware or it will wait until your next intervention
- Installation might take some time, for a successful process, you will be greeted with a message below, otherwise, error might occured
    - `==> drivible: App URL: http://drivible.test`
- Kindly refer to [Vagrant](vagrantup.com) docs to know more about vagrant commands (CLI) other than `vagrant up`, `vagrant halt`, `vagrant destroy`

CONFIGURATION
-------------

### Database

Edit the file `config/db.php` with real data, for example:

```php
return [
    'class' => 'yii\db\Connection',
    'dsn' => 'mysql:host=localhost;dbname=yii2basic',
    'username' => 'root',
    'password' => '1234',
    'charset' => 'utf8',
];
```

**NOTES:**
- Yii won't create the database for you, this has to be done manually before you can access it.
- Check and edit the other files in the `config/` directory to customize your application as required.
- Refer to the README in the `tests` directory for information specific to basic application tests.


TESTING
-------

Tests are located in `tests` directory. They are developed with [Codeception PHP Testing Framework](http://codeception.com/).
By default there are 3 test suites:

- `unit`
- `functional`
- `acceptance`

Tests can be executed by running

```
vendor/bin/codecept run
```

The command above will execute unit and functional tests. Unit tests are testing the system components, while functional
tests are for testing user interaction. Acceptance tests are disabled by default as they require additional setup since
they perform testing in real browser. 


### Running  acceptance tests

To execute acceptance tests do the following:  

1. Rename `tests/acceptance.suite.yml.example` to `tests/acceptance.suite.yml` to enable suite configuration

2. Replace `codeception/base` package in `composer.json` with `codeception/codeception` to install full featured
   version of Codeception

3. Update dependencies with Composer 

    ```
    composer update  
    ```

4. Download [Selenium Server](http://www.seleniumhq.org/download/) and launch it:

    ```
    java -jar ~/selenium-server-standalone-x.xx.x.jar
    ```

    In case of using Selenium Server 3.0 with Firefox browser since v48 or Google Chrome since v53 you must download [GeckoDriver](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases) or [ChromeDriver](https://sites.google.com/a/chromium.org/chromedriver/downloads) and launch Selenium with it:

    ```
    # for Firefox
    java -jar -Dwebdriver.gecko.driver=~/geckodriver ~/selenium-server-standalone-3.xx.x.jar
    
    # for Google Chrome
    java -jar -Dwebdriver.chrome.driver=~/chromedriver ~/selenium-server-standalone-3.xx.x.jar
    ``` 
    
    As an alternative way you can use already configured Docker container with older versions of Selenium and Firefox:
    
    ```
    docker run --net=host selenium/standalone-firefox:2.53.0
    ```

5. (Optional) Create `yii2_basic_tests` database and update it by applying migrations if you have them.

   ```
   tests/bin/yii migrate
   ```

   The database configuration can be found at `config/test_db.php`.


6. Start web server:

    ```
    tests/bin/yii serve
    ```

7. Now you can run all available tests

   ```
   # run all available tests
   vendor/bin/codecept run

   # run acceptance tests
   vendor/bin/codecept run acceptance

   # run only unit and functional tests
   vendor/bin/codecept run unit,functional
   ```

### Code coverage support

By default, code coverage is disabled in `codeception.yml` configuration file, you should uncomment needed rows to be able
to collect code coverage. You can run your tests and collect coverage with the following command:

```
#collect coverage for all tests
vendor/bin/codecept run -- --coverage-html --coverage-xml

#collect coverage only for unit tests
vendor/bin/codecept run unit -- --coverage-html --coverage-xml

#collect coverage for unit and functional tests
vendor/bin/codecept run functional,unit -- --coverage-html --coverage-xml
```

You can see code coverage output under the `tests/_output` directory.


# Development

## Composer

`composer.json` has entries in `require-dev` that point to development versions of `mozzler` related packages. This allows for easily developing in those packages with live updating within the current yii2 application. This avoids needing to update a package, commit it, then re-run composer to update.

Commit message:

* Added example EB files and information for those wanting to setup Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon Linux 2

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/yiisoft" target="_blank">
        <img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/993323" height="100px">
    </a>
    <h1 align="center">Mozzler - Yii 2 Default Project Template</h1>
    <br>
</p>

Mozzler Yii 2 Basic Project Template is a skeleton [Yii 2](http://www.yiiframework.com/) application best for
rapidly creating small projects.

The template contains the basic features including user login/logout and a contact page.
It includes all commonly used configurations that would allow you to focus on adding new
features to your application.

This version is updated with Mozzler specific changes to use that as the main framework set of editions.

The project is expected to run using MongoDB as the database and PHP using Apache or Nginx as the webserver.

Elastic Beanstalk
-------------------------------

Check [docs/elastic-beanstalk.md](docs/elastic-beanstalk.md) for more information about configuring and using this with AWS's Elastic Beanstalk system

Stubs
-------------------------------
When you add a new component and want the IDE autocomplete you'll want to regenerate the stubs so you can use `\Yii::$app->componentName`) 
you can run `./yii stubs 'config/console.php' 'config/web.php'`

Running the stubs command should update the vendor/Yii.php file and add a number of @property entries. CHeck https://packagist.org/packages/bazilio/yii2-stubs-generator for more info



DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
-------------------

      assets/             contains assets definition
      commands/           contains console commands (controllers)
      config/             contains application configurations
      controllers/        contains Web controller classes
      mail/               contains view files for e-mails
      models/             contains model classes
      runtime/            contains files generated during runtime
      tests/              contains various tests for the basic application
      vendor/             contains dependent 3rd-party packages
      views/              contains view files for the Web application
      web/                contains the entry script and Web resources



REQUIREMENTS
------------

The minimum requirement by this project template that your Web server supports PHP 5.4.0.


INSTALLATION
------------

### Install via Composer

If you do not have [Composer](http://getcomposer.org/), you may install it by following the instructions
at [getcomposer.org](http://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-nix).

You can then install this project template using the following command:

~~~
php composer.phar create-project --prefer-dist --stability=dev yiisoft/yii2-app-basic basic
~~~

Now you should be able to access the application through the following URL, assuming `basic` is the directory
directly under the Web root.

~~~
http://localhost/basic/web/
~~~

### Install from an Archive File

Extract the archive file downloaded from [yiiframework.com](http://www.yiiframework.com/download/) to
a directory named `basic` that is directly under the Web root.

Set cookie validation key in `config/web.php` file to some random secret string:

```php
'request' => [
    // !!! insert a secret key in the following (if it is empty) - this is required by cookie validation
    'cookieValidationKey' => '<secret random string goes here>',
],
```

You can then access the application through the following URL:

~~~
http://localhost/basic/web/
~~~


### Install with Docker

Update your vendor packages

    docker-compose run --rm php composer update --prefer-dist
    
Run the installation triggers (creating cookie validation code)

    docker-compose run --rm php composer install    
    
Start the container

    docker-compose up -d
    
You can then access the application through the following URL:

    http://127.0.0.1:8000


**NOTES:** 
- Minimum required Docker engine version `17.04` for development (see [Performance tuning for volume mounts](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/osxfs-caching/))
- The default configuration uses a host-volume in your home directory `.docker-composer` for composer caches


### Install with Vagrant

To work with a headless virtual environment, do the following:

In the `Vagrantfile` alter the app domain name e.g. `drivible.test`, this domain is the browser accessible address

    domains = {
        app: 'drivible.test'
    }

Update machine name in `vagrant/config/vagrant-local.yml` e.g. `drivible` and VM IP address e.g. `192.168.83.138` (so not to conflict with other VMs and connect the MongoDB via Compass)

    # Virtual machine name
    machine_name: drivible

    # Virtual machine IP
    ip: 192.168.83.138

You can also use the config file above to tailor your VM specifications based on your needs.

Edit the `config/web.php` e.g. `drivible` as app name

    'name' => 'Drivible',

Change in `nginx/app.conf` the server_name e.g. `drivible.test` to match the changes in the `Vagrantfile` app domain

    server_name drivible.test;

Then, provision the server

    vagrant up

**NOTES:** 
- Vagrant installation is not fully unattended as it may require host password before proceeding in the middle of the process, kindly be aware or it will wait until your next intervention
- Installation might take some time, for a successful process, you will be greeted with a message below, otherwise, error might occured
    - `==> drivible: App URL: http://drivible.test`
- Kindly refer to [Vagrant](vagrantup.com) docs to know more about vagrant commands (CLI) other than `vagrant up`, `vagrant halt`, `vagrant destroy`

CONFIGURATION
-------------

### Database

Edit the file `config/db.php` with real data, for example:

```php
return [
    'class' => 'yii\db\Connection',
    'dsn' => 'mysql:host=localhost;dbname=yii2basic',
    'username' => 'root',
    'password' => '1234',
    'charset' => 'utf8',
];
```

**NOTES:**
- Yii won't create the database for you, this has to be done manually before you can access it.
- Check and edit the other files in the `config/` directory to customize your application as required.
- Refer to the README in the `tests` directory for information specific to basic application tests.


TESTING
-------

Tests are located in `tests` directory. They are developed with [Codeception PHP Testing Framework](http://codeception.com/).
By default there are 3 test suites:

- `unit`
- `functional`
- `acceptance`

Tests can be executed by running

```
vendor/bin/codecept run
```

The command above will execute unit and functional tests. Unit tests are testing the system components, while functional
tests are for testing user interaction. Acceptance tests are disabled by default as they require additional setup since
they perform testing in real browser. 


### Running  acceptance tests

To execute acceptance tests do the following:  

1. Rename `tests/acceptance.suite.yml.example` to `tests/acceptance.suite.yml` to enable suite configuration

2. Replace `codeception/base` package in `composer.json` with `codeception/codeception` to install full featured
   version of Codeception

3. Update dependencies with Composer 

    ```
    composer update  
    ```

4. Download [Selenium Server](http://www.seleniumhq.org/download/) and launch it:

    ```
    java -jar ~/selenium-server-standalone-x.xx.x.jar
    ```

    In case of using Selenium Server 3.0 with Firefox browser since v48 or Google Chrome since v53 you must download [GeckoDriver](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases) or [ChromeDriver](https://sites.google.com/a/chromium.org/chromedriver/downloads) and launch Selenium with it:

    ```
    # for Firefox
    java -jar -Dwebdriver.gecko.driver=~/geckodriver ~/selenium-server-standalone-3.xx.x.jar
    
    # for Google Chrome
    java -jar -Dwebdriver.chrome.driver=~/chromedriver ~/selenium-server-standalone-3.xx.x.jar
    ``` 
    
    As an alternative way you can use already configured Docker container with older versions of Selenium and Firefox:
    
    ```
    docker run --net=host selenium/standalone-firefox:2.53.0
    ```

5. (Optional) Create `yii2_basic_tests` database and update it by applying migrations if you have them.

   ```
   tests/bin/yii migrate
   ```

   The database configuration can be found at `config/test_db.php`.


6. Start web server:

    ```
    tests/bin/yii serve
    ```

7. Now you can run all available tests

   ```
   # run all available tests
   vendor/bin/codecept run

   # run acceptance tests
   vendor/bin/codecept run acceptance

   # run only unit and functional tests
   vendor/bin/codecept run unit,functional
   ```

### Code coverage support

By default, code coverage is disabled in `codeception.yml` configuration file, you should uncomment needed rows to be able
to collect code coverage. You can run your tests and collect coverage with the following command:

```
#collect coverage for all tests
vendor/bin/codecept run -- --coverage-html --coverage-xml

#collect coverage only for unit tests
vendor/bin/codecept run unit -- --coverage-html --coverage-xml

#collect coverage for unit and functional tests
vendor/bin/codecept run functional,unit -- --coverage-html --coverage-xml
```

You can see code coverage output under the `tests/_output` directory.


# Development

## Composer

`composer.json` has entries in `require-dev` that point to development versions of `mozzler` related packages. This allows for easily developing in those packages with live updating within the current yii2 application. This avoids needing to update a package, commit it, then re-run composer to update.
